doc/src/manual/ranch.set_max_connections.asciidoc, before:

= ranch:set_max_connections(3)

== Name

ranch:set_max_connections - Set the max number of connections

== Description

[source,erlang]
----
set_max_connections(Ref      :: ranch:ref(),
                    MaxConns :: ranch:max_conns())
    -> ok
----

Set the max number of connections.

The change will be applied immediately. If the new value is
smaller than the previous one, Ranch will wait for the extra
connections to terminate and will not accept new connections
until the number of connections goes below the limit.

== Arguments

Ref::

The listener name.

MaxConns::

The new maximum number of connections.

== Return value

The atom `ok` is always returned. It can be safely ignored.

== Examples

.Set the max number of connections
[source,erlang]
----
ranch:set_max_connections(example, 10000).
----

== See also

link:man:ranch:get_max_connections(3)[ranch:get_max_connections(3)],
link:man:ranch:set_protocol_options(3)[ranch:set_protocol_options(3)],
link:man:ranch:set_transport_options(3)[ranch:set_transport_options(3)],
link:man:ranch(3)[ranch(3)]

Commit message:

Add the num_conns_sups option
This new option allows configuring the number of connection
supervisors. The old behavior can be obtained by setting this
value to 1. A value larger than num_acceptors will result in
some connection supervisors not being used as the acceptors
currently only use one connection supervisor.

doc/src/manual/ranch.set_max_connections.asciidoc, after:

= ranch:set_max_connections(3)

== Name

ranch:set_max_connections - Set the max number of connections per connection supervisor

== Description

[source,erlang]
----
set_max_connections(Ref      :: ranch:ref(),
                    MaxConns :: ranch:max_conns())
    -> ok
----

Set the max number of connections per connection supervisor.

The change will be applied immediately. If the new value is
smaller than the previous one, Ranch will wait for the extra
connections to terminate and will not accept new connections
until the number of connections goes below the limit.

== Arguments

Ref::

The listener name.

MaxConns::

The new maximum number of connections per connection supervisor.

== Return value

The atom `ok` is always returned. It can be safely ignored.

== Changelog

* *2.0*: The maximum number of connections is now per connection supervisor.

== Examples

.Set the max number of connections per connection supervisor
[source,erlang]
----
ranch:set_max_connections(example, 10000).
----

== See also

link:man:ranch:get_max_connections(3)[ranch:get_max_connections(3)],
link:man:ranch:set_protocol_options(3)[ranch:set_protocol_options(3)],
link:man:ranch:set_transport_options(3)[ranch:set_transport_options(3)],
link:man:ranch(3)[ranch(3)]
